 HTML:
 stands for Hyper Text Mark Up Language.
 Struture and Content of A Page.
 Not the styling,not the interactivity.
 Just the structuring content.
 
 Back in the academic community,in  the year of 1989,early 1990,this is
 not exactly a hard start date to HTML.
 But in that time,basically people worked changing papers,giant thesis papers,
 scientific and technical documents.
 And they all have very specific formatting but when they are being exchanged.
 there was no way to actually send that formatting across the Internet.
 
 So what I mean lets say you wanted to have a paper that looked like this and
 this is a style guide I found on writing scientific papers.
   
 So lets just take the Abstract Section:
 looks like a link to another part of the Paper.
 and lastly we have got some nested bullet points.
  
 So this information if I want to send this to somebody.
 But all that I could send is text  so I cant send an image of this.
 I can't send the actual structure of it.
 All I can send is some text,so that might look something like this.
 The problem is how do I take this text here which is the same text 
 over here and how do I encode the structure.
 How do I say this Abstract added that in.
 How do I say this is bold and biggr text.
 And so as function.
 And there is a bullet point right here.
 And another bullet point right here.
 So that is what HTML lets us do.
 Its lets us take text and content and just by writing some other text on top 
 of it.
 It lets us specify exactly this is a heading,this is bald,this is italisized.
 This is a link,link is actually very imortant thats where the name comes
 from Hypertext MarkUp Language because HTML allows us to create 
 hyperlinks and linking to documents together is really impotant.
 Many scientific papers are gonna be referencing many scientific papers.
 Foot notes and all sorts of citations.
 HTML facilatated that and made a really big impact.
 And then it basically caught on.
 People realized its pretty simple.
 Its not very intimidating thing.
 So moved kind of away from purely academic situation to kind of broader use.
 All the way up to [myspace] we could actually edit your profile using .html
 So there are people who are absolutely not technical and they are still able to
 write html,css to add some interesting features to the page to make some
 customized visuals.

 HTML allows us to that using HTML taGS.
 
 <b></b> is depricated. Not supposed to use it anymore.
  alernative:
 The General Rule applies everywhere.
 <tagName>Some Content</tagName> 
 "This is my first tag!!"=> 
  HTML is just text but your browser interprets it and turns it into something like 
  this or this.
  You can see that as it opens,its not showing me the actual html.
  This isnt a valid document and that because we were missing the 
  underlying structure that every page needs to have.
  It looks like this:
  It always the same.
  It is taking the html and underlying into nice visual representation.
  =>view source file CTRL + U.
  Drag and drop works for .html files.
  Sublime: html hit tab
  Type: mdn doctype

  

   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  