Types of Applications:
When you are developing any application using java or any other programming language,your application can be standalone or client server or 
web based application or distributed or combination of web and distributed with the help of java.

Developing first Servlet:
In every program,there is a main method,what is the use of main method?
Starting point of your application development.
When you start running your application,initially  main will be started.
From there you can implement any function,now onwards we are not using main method
We are writing an application,that will not contain any main method.
How it runs we will see??
Taking login Scenerio:
Ex:Login (Gmail or Facebook)
Writing login.html
You know how to write basic html file
Basics currently you know.

Heading I am taking "course cube" as header and down to that heading "user login",ie 
username is a label just beside to that, label u need to display 1 text field,so that you can enter the value.
and the another label called password and another text field and 
You should have some button callled submit button,Caption of that you can write anything login or whatever caption you want.

So whatever caption you observed over the button,"in facebook what is the caption of the button?-login".
In gmail,sign up,so that you can customize whatever you want you can display it on the button.
This is the login form.
So,initially you are opening in , deployed in coursecube website.
So,there is the url to write:

****Make its a login.html file**** 


Output is this:
You have to request for this page initially.
http://www.coursecube.com/login.html

So,when you want to access any application,what is your first step,first you are opening a browser and then you have to type the url
This is called as url.(https://www.coursecube.com/login.html)

To open the browser and type the url
When you type and press enter,then request will go to server where is the coursecube server,somewhere it is there it is not in your computer right,it is 
there in remote machine,somewhere in remote server.

So,this is server assume I have a couple of applications of applications and deployed in a webserver called "apache tomcat",this is called as webserver, apache tomcat is a webserver,

Whatever application you are developing,that application has to be deployed in this server machine.
So when we send request to this,then type this url and press enter request will go this webserver
Inside this application your application is (say,ccwebapp),this is your application name,(ccwebapp) is application you have developed,
which is deployed in the webserver.So request will go to this server and what you are requesting here?
You are requesting for login.html file.It is called as resource,any file you are writing,any component you are wriiting
and deploying in the server.I am using a term here called deploy,developed you know right.

What is developed?Writing the code html or jsp or java class whatever youp are writing the code,you are developing the code
Then you have to deploy into the server,so what is the meaning of deployment,moving the application to server location.

Where you are developing the Application?
You are developing in Eclipse only.Eclipse will have some workspace.At some location you are writing the code,developing the code.
Once application development completed you have to move that application to server location.
The process of moving the application to server location is called as "deployment".
So,in this applicaton, whatever files you have deployed,all are called as "resources".
So,you are requesting for the resource called login.html,so it verifies in this application,login.html is there or not.
If login.html is available that "response" will be displayed back to you.You see the output something like this.
If your html file is not there,then you will get an error message,saying HTTP status code:404,"requested resource is not available".
Your are requesting for a resource called login.html,if it is there it will be displayed as an output.

If it is not available with the status 404,its displays the error message as requested resource/login.html is not available.

Assume I have written this,and it has displayed output to you.
Then usually I have entered the user name password.
If I maintain user name password something like this.
And click on the submit button.


When I click on submit button,again request will go to server.


"So we need some person here.
Someone has to sit in the server and
What is the job of this person?
Whenever you send a request by submitting username and password this person is responsible to collect this
username password whatever you are entering here in the text field in an html file,that you have to collect at server side,
so some person has to do that."
And then verify whether username password is right or wrong

Where username passwords available?
In database.
How to contact database now?
You know how to contact database,that we will do it later.
So,you have to contact database.

When you contact database,you will come to know username,password available or not.

If right,display the homepage if wrong come back and say that "username/passoword something,your username password is invalid".
Some message you can display back to user.
This person who is sittting in server responsibile for receiving request processing is called as servlet.

Say,I am writing "one servlet" called login servlet.

Its just a naming convention[sic] a servlet component LoginServlet.

Its job is to verify the login credentials.

Similarly we have a registration form.

When I submit registration with all the details,you need to have another servlet,which is responsible to collect all the registration data and store 
that in database.

For that you can write another servlet called "Register Servlet".

For "each task,each request",you must have one servlet component,I m calling here term as "component".
Servlet component you can say,it is also called as "servlet resource",or "servlet component" which is responsible to recieve request and process it delivers the respose.

Servlet will do 3 things:(**request will come to this)
Then first whatsover data is there
1 Collect the data:
  whatever data you are sending here.currenlty you are sending only two values username/password,your login servlet has to collect this 
  How to collect?
After colllecting process
2.Process data
3.Sending response:
Send response to client who is sending the request,you are entering username password,you are submitting.
So here we have to collect only username and password.

Some string un = there is an object here we will take about this 

There is a method called getParameter,

getParameter of some name you have to write

Code -----> String un = getParameter("uname")
There are two text field here.

In one text field I am writing "sri" value,another text field I am writing I am writing value called "vas".

Now I have to collect the value from the text fields.

When I collect value from text fields,you should have some unique name for this.

This text field have some name and this text field should have 1 name.

And this text field should have one name
So,you can collect the value of text field whose name is something.

For eg this text filed name I am considering as uname,it just logical name String.

And this name is considering as pword.

So,two text fileds are there you have given a unique name for this.

If you want you can use same name also.
But the way of collecting data will change.

We will talk later.
We have some unique names here,now here you have to currently [sic] data,
getParameter give me the value of the parameter whose name is uname.
Just simple method getParameter of uname.

When you submit this form,whatever data you have submitted,this data will go from client machine to server machine.
That will go as parameters.
It will go as parameter,which has parameter name means "text field name".What is the name of this?
uname.
What is the value entered by you?
sri
And second parameter name is  pword
What is the value entered by you?
vas
This is one parameter(uname),this is another parameter(pword)

You are sending 2 parameters from client to server.
Each parameter has name and value.

If you know the parameter name,you can get the value by calling getParameter method.
So you are asking get the parameter value whose name is uname.

What this contains now?
This is a String variable.

String un = req.getParameter("uname");
What it contains now value "sri"

Similarly String pw = req.getParameter("uword");

Parameter name you specify value will  come to u.

Simple method at server side to access and you are not at all writing any code for internal communication.
Here you have a client machine,this is your computer,your PC,Laptop and this is server machine which is at remote place.
When you submit from your machine your machine and server machine are connected.There should be network connection.
And data has to be transferred from clinet machine to server machine on the internal code already they have written.

You just design your html file and when you submit the data,automatically it will go to ,from here client, we have a browser.
What is the application you have on the client side?
You are using a browser.U cna use nay browser functionlity is mostloy 99% same.
You have changed your front person to the browsers.

Some functionality is changed from browser to browser.

This browser is an application right,it is an application or not?
Browser is an application some software it is,you are installing.

Server also some application,developed and installed at some place.
This two(browser,server) will talk internally,whenever you submit.These two will talk.makes the connection and transfers the data at low level.
That low level job is not required for us.

Already implemented with server,implemented with browser.
U just data u collect,u just call this method,you will get the data submitted by the client.

So,you collected 
1 one done.
2nd Process:
Processing will change.

We are collecting data,way of collecting data always same.
Whether you are collecting two fields or 20 fields depending upon the form you design.

Here becaue of login we are sending username/pwd 2 fileds.
If its a search field,suppose I want to search the customer based on email ID,then how mabny input field will be there.
Only one.

We have only enterered email,context field and submit button.

You are submitting only email ID.

get the email ID
get the data of the email ID and 
display back to [...]

So processing logic will change depending on the requirement you are developing,

Here it is login,you have to contact the database right,

Contact DB.
For that you know how to write JDBC programs.
Currently I am not doing this.

I just consider as 

if (un.equals(pwd)) //currently I am considering
login success

So assume because of first example,make a small requirement.
We dont have any database in this example.

If both are same,we will consider login as success,if both are different login failed.
So,the processing case,you are deciding whether the login is success or not.

Then third we are sending the response back to client.

so what to do.

if (success)
then display HOMEPAGE
What is HOMEPAGE?
If you take your gmail,initiallyt only have login form,so once login success,you seeing all your (inbox,All sent items,ie followed as homepage.
Or in facebook when you login,you can see some kind of homepage,wiothout that you cannot naviagate over the things.

Else
login failed.

Again,display login page and somewhere here you display username and pword.
Some error message,usually all error message will come in red color.
Else display login page only but error message.

So now for this basic login requirement,how many files we are writing.
First is login.html file.
and then LoginServlet.

LoginServlet is a java class,You have to write a java class by following some rules.
Then you deploy both HTML file and servlet in the server only.

Where this 2 will sit?
Inside the server only.

Your html file is also inside server only,not in your machine.

When you open the browser,first you request for this,so you are sending REQ1 your first request is what is REQ1 you are sending,
please display the login.html file and you will get a response.

Your first response is RESP1 is login form will be displayed.Then you are entering username password you are submitting.
This is your 2nd request,what is your 2nd RESPONSE?
Your 2nd RESPONSE? What is the response you are getting HOMEPAGE OR LOGIN PAGE.

depending on whether you are request processing is successfull or failed?
So while writing my java class called LoginServlet.

So,as of now we are writing so many java classes and after writing the class,class will also have methods.then what we have done previously.
After writing class we are creating object right?
Then we are calling the method.

We have written Hello Class some many times,then we created object,using new Hello,then we call the methods,have a show method calling this.

So after writing class,you have to create object,and whatever methods you are writing inside this servlet you have to calll it actually.

But now u just write a servlet class and throw that inside the server.You no need to create any object,you no need to call any method,
your server will take care about creating object and calling the methods implemented by you inside that,so you tend to tell your server 
that I have written one servlet  please take care about that,so you have to integrate to the server,than the server, inside a server,
inside a webserver apache tomcat web server,written one servlet,please take care about that,so you have to integrate to the server.

Than the server,inside the server,inside the webserver apache tomcat ,there is another component sitting called container,the actual processing will go right,
this top box is called as webserver,and there is one seperate application and this is webcontainer,webcontainer contains your applicaton,it contains ccwebapp.
where you deployed your application,you are deploying your appplication inside your web container,webcontainer is one application or one software application which 
is responisble to manage your web based application,and webcontainer application is running inside webserver.

When you send the request,first request will come to webserver,webserver will hand over to webcontainer.webcontainer will process all this and webcontainer will
deliver the response to webvserver.Webserver will send the response back to client.Now webserver which is sitting on the top of webcontainer.

Webserver goal is different,webcontainer job is different,webserver goal is to connect to client taking the data ,and hand off data to webcontainer and if webcontainer is giving any
response data,takes the data and send to client,only network management will be done by the webserver.

But your application processing for eg when you ar requesting for login1.html file what happens 
I am typing coursecube.com/login1.html.
you are requestig for a resource called login.html.
request will go to server,server simply hand overs to container,
now container is responsible to check whether this html file is available or not.
This html fiel is not availble, so it sends the error message back.

So,container will process your application,this webcontainer is now responsible to load your servlet class,
and webcontainer is responsible to create the object of the servlet class,webcontainer is responsible to call the methods,implemented inside the servlet class.
you just write a servlet class throw that inside the webcontainer,webcontainer will manage the complete life cycle of the servlet.

Servlet has some kind of life cycle mechanism


That all will be managed by the servlet,but you have to inform to the webcontainer that I have written some servlet, its class is this,its available in some package.
This information you have to intimate to webcontainer.
Because you may write different different classes.
I am writing class name as LoginServlet,you may write as LoginServlet.Some other can write as some other and you may write different different servlets,
You may write 1000 servlets in an application,container cannot recognize all,you have to telll that I have written these many servlets,names are these.

That information you have to communicate with webcontainer.

How u can communicate wuth webcontainer?
You have to tell to ui team.

You are a devloper you are writing a servlet called LoginServlet.
Now you have to intimate about your servlet to the container.

How you can intimate?
What options?

What is the use of Annotation?
There are two options:
You cannot send email or u cannot send sms right?

You have to configure this.
You can pass information in 2 ways,

1.You write all your information in the xml file.
                            or 
2.You configure through annotation.


This is the old(1) mechanism and this is the new(2).

So whatever serlets you are writing,you describe all the servlet information inside an xml file.

and xml file here in the web application fixed as web.xml file is  in your application.
In your application what are the components we were writing as of now is 
1 is Login.html
2 is LoginServlet.class
You are writing .java but you are keeping as .class file

And 3rd file you have to keep is web.xml

What does web.xml file contains?
About your servlet.

I f you write 1000 servlets,all 1000 servlets has to be described inside web.xml file.
That you can call it as a configuration.
Configure the servlet.

How can I configure servlet?
Where you can describe the information of your servlet?

In web.xml file or in annotation.


The process of desrcribing your servlet at some place is called as configuration.

Where you can describe that?
You can describe that in xml or in annotation approach.

Configuration of servlet can be done with xml or with annotation.

3 components we write.
After writing all 3 components 
Get Back and deploy to webcontainer.

When your summarise running automatically webcontainer will run.
Request for html file
and it will find html file available or not.
Yes available.
Then response will be displayed.
You are seeing this form now,as a First response.

Then enter username and submit,you are sending request,
This request will go to server first webserver,webserver will hand over to webcontainer,now webcontainer has to ask someone to process this,
webcontainer has received a request,now webcontainer has to ask someone to process the request.
So,who will process this.
LoginServlet

Assume I have 3 servlets
1 is LoginServlet
another HelloServlet
another HiServlet

And you consider instead of Login name 
I have written 2 servlets here.
One is HelloServlet
Another is HiServlet 
Now which servlet is responsible to do my Login Request?
Assume no login servlet this I written as HelloServlet

Name can be anything right and HelloServlet is responisble to process your login requirement.
To input username and pwd this Servlet is responsible but in addition to this I have written another servlet called HiServlets also.
I have 2 servlets also,HelloServlet,HiServlet and both are configured in web.xml file.
So no of files available in application are ccwebapp is the application name which has 4 components.

xml file what is there inside xml file?
Configuration of HelloServlet,configuration means information about your servlet you are describing in xml file.so configuration of HelloServlet,HiServlet available in
web.xml file.

"Hello" and "hi" doing something and html file,in this we know that the logic written inside Hello Servlet is for login procedure.
And say inside HiServlet we have a logic for registration requirement but when you submit a request to server,server hand overs to 
container,container has to ask one servlet to process this,there are 2 servlets,there are 2 persons
How container will come to know that which server will be able to process your Login Requirement.
For that whenever you send a request,your request will go with some URI.
For  every servlet you bind the servlet with some uri,this I am writing say as (/login.jlc).

And this I am writing as (/rec.jlc)
I have taken a uri this is called as URI.

So when I am sending this,I have to send request URI as /login.jlc,I am sending request with the URI called login.jlc.
Which servlet is binded with /login.jlc HelloServlet,so container checks what is the request coming /login.jlc
And .jlc notation why it is required we will see that later.
This is considered as login.jlc

Now there are so many servlets,each servlet will have a URI,request is coming with login.jlc
Means you are submitting login form with username and password.
Container takes this login.jlc checks which servlet is configured with URI called login.jlc HelloServlet

Then it will process the HelloServlet,if this is a registration form same like this u have written a registration form.
Same like this you have written a registration.html file.In that u have all the registration data.
When you submitting a registration form,you have to send request with /rec.jlc.
When request coming with rec,jlc container checks which servlet is specified with /rec.jlc?
HiServlet.
Invokes the functionality of HiServlet.More on that we will see in the life cycle mechanism.

So if u have to develop basic application what is required?
If u want to develop run this,to see the output something like this,what is required
First you need is a browser,which is already installled,which is readily available,you need tomcat so we have to install tomcat first,after installation of Tomcat,
you have to develop the code,what are the components you developed now.
Come back to this login:
LoginServlet whose url pattern is : login.jlc
3 files
where you are developing this?
Eclipse
In Eclipse you have to create a project.
Previously we created a java project.
Now you have to create a web project.
In that Eclipse web project,You develop the code for html,servlet class and web.xml file.
After writing that deploy that into your Tomcat  and stop the Tomcat.
When server is running,then it will open the browser,and send the request 1,you will get a response from server.
Server is running,then you submit username password,your servlet will recieve and so some processing and response back to the client(here, browser).

We will do this as of now.
We have explained the flow at very high level.


Simillar diagram given at page no 8.
Consider request to login servlet.
LoginServlet is being creating,collecting data,verifying the client data.
There is processing 3rd is getting response back to client.
And response we will throw as loginpage.html.
Currently we are not coming to login.html file
Because html is static page.
We cannot make it dynamic and some dyamic response I am sending.
code:

2.Verifying the client data
if (unm.equals(pwd)){
msg="<h1>Login Success<br/>Welcome to JLC Homepage";
}
else
msg="<h1>Login Failed<br/>Invalid Username or Password";
}

3.Prepare the response:
Writer out = res.getWriter();
out.write(msg);


Your are sending different output to the client.

So come back to the installation first:

Write the terms that I have written there.

1.Develop

2.Deploy

3.Resources :Any html file,any servlet you write which you write which are called resources.

4.Components:servlets and jsp are called as components.

5.Life Cycle.

And configuring of  servlets can be done in 
1.xml
2.Annotation

Every servlet you wriite will be managed by the container only means you are not going to create any object now onwards.
Servlet objects will be created by the container,methods written inside the servlet also willl be called automatically by the container only.

You are not going to create objects,you are not going to call any methods,related to servlet.
Those terms again we will more later,

Come back to installation at page no 7

Two ways we can configure.

WebContainer:

Webserver:


Your output will be login success.
Welcome to home page.

Tomcat 7 Installation:
1.Make sure you have Java 7 or higher version installed.
2.Apache Products are always open licensed.
3.Not ony usage free,if u want u can modify
4.If u want to customise Tomcat Functionality.
5.U can change the software and redistribute.
6.But Java you cannot do like that
7. Install Full (All of the Components) 

What is the significance of the Port Number?

It is like your Roll No,in this room so many students are sitting,how to identify the students uniquely,the entire room no is 1 right.In room 1
there are so many students sitting,there are multiple rooms,to identify rooms we say room no 1,room no 2,room no 3.In that room that are 
so many students,to identify each student we have roll no of students
  
When you have a computer,to identify the computer uniquely across the globe,we have IP Address,with IP Address we can reach the computer,
inside the computer we have so many softwares installed,so many servers running,inside 1 computer,assume there is oracle software running,mysql running,
Tomcat Running,JBOSS Running,WebLogic Running.
So when I am sending a request,which server has to process the request that process will be identified uniquely in the computer using  this port Number.

When u start oracle and mysql and Tomcat,three servers running,3 servers will run with the unique numbers,this port number is the number which is used to identify 
your server or service uniquely with the computer.

When I request this service  port number(1521),then it is for oracle,it will be given to oracle server.
if request is coming with the port number 3036,then its is request is to be processed by the mysql server.

Similarly if you want to send the request now to Tomcat Server.
then you send the request with different uniuque number called as Port Number.

So here:
Server Shutodown Port:
Http Connecter Port: $-->9999
Two different connector:
HTTP connector is differnet and 
AJP Connector($-->9009) 
is different.

If your not changing Oracle will also have conflict.
Even Oracle has aslo one similar port no internally using.
Oracle has 2 different servers internally.
Whatever Oracle 10g installed.Oracle 10g database server is different,database server running in the port 1521
And Oracle 10g internally having 1 Tomcat,they have taken same Tomcat,integrated with Oracle 10g that is also running
with 8080 and same 8009,8005.
When Oracle is running in your machine that will not allow you to run Tomcat.
Change all the ports so that even if Oracle10g running,it wont stop your Tomcat.
After this 3 changes,
Gives user name and password.

Changes made(Server Shutdown Port,Http Connector Port,AJP Connector,username/passowrd provided)

Click on Next
It is selecting the JVM
Automaticaly,it has selected the JVM now.

Its asking I want a JDK ,I want a JRE
Why JRE is required?
To run the Java Programs,to run the JAVA Application.
So how Tomcat is implemented?
Tomcat is an application which is developed in JAVA only.
Tomcat is a Java Application.
When you install Tomcat,Tomcat has to run,that application has to run.
Internally Tomcat is a Java Application,which has main method.
That applicatiion will run your servlet,so you no need to select actually.
By defualt it picks the highest,if you have JRE 6,JRE 7,JRE 8,all three softwares installed in your machine.
Automatically it picks the highest version.
1.8 JRE selected.
If your installer is unable to select this,then select this using path.
Otherwise JRE selected now.
JRE 1.8 selected.

Which JRE selected private or public?
This is public,so private will not be used.

Now in your computer,you might run so many applications which are developed in JAVA.
But those JAVA applications will need JRE.

So all the JAVA Applications running on your computer will use only the public JRE.
That is in C Program files.
So that is already there,click on next button.
And Installlation location,where you want to install?
You want to use this customise it.
I am going to install on E:/Tomcat7.0
That is the destination folder you want to install.
And then click on Install button.

Uncheck Run Apache Tomcat.

Click on Finish.

Your Tomcat is installed now.

Installtion we check in : Here(C:\Program Files\Apache Software Foundation\Tomcat 7.0)
Under Tomcat we have Tomcat7.0 folder:
Go to command line:
Under Tomcat 7.0 we have 
bin,lib

When we install any JAVA related software,whether Tomcat,JBOSS,any other
Everywhere you will find a lib folder and bin bolder.

What bin contains?
Binaries exe files.

cd bin
dir
U can see Tomcat7.exe
and bootstrap.jar and some 
dll file,dll is binary 
and exe files.

cd lib
There are so many jars
In this we need 2 important jars
jsp-api.jar
servlet-api.jar

These 2 jars actually contains all the implementations of your 
servlet related api 
and jsp api's

What is servlet api?What is jdbc api?
For jdbc implementaion what database [sic]needed for java they have given set of classes and interfaces.
Some classes interfaces given under 2 packages
called
java.sql
java[sic]

And those implementations are provided by (who provided implementation for all the jdbc api)?
Database Vendors.

The implementations are packed into jar file.
And when you are using a mysql you are using a jar file called mysql.jar
In Oracle we are using OJDBC16.jar

What these jar contains?
What mysql.jar contains?
Subclasses for all the jdbc api.
In jdbc you have only interfaces.
How many classes we have in jdbc?
From jdbc api how many classes are there?
Only 2 classes:
1 is the typeClass,which has only constants.
2 is DriverManagerClass

All remaining interface only.
So,someone has to provide a implemention for all the interfaces , subclasses.
Subclasses are packed into the [sic].

Similarly in servlet and jsp also,you have 99% interfaces only.
Interfaces need subclasses
Subclasses provided by corresponding server vendor.

Those are packed into this jar files.
jsp-api.jar 
servlet-api.jar

These two we will use,remaining are internal.
lib has all the jar files required.
and other folders important for us.

One is logs:
Server Logs:
When your server is running.
Internally whatsover things happening in server,will be logged into this logged files.
We will see how to log files using log file generator.

What is a log book in general?
When you are coming to class, you are signing a attendence registry.
Can I call this a log book
So when you are coming you are writing your roll no.

Similarly when your server is running,whatever it is doing,it will write the information in one simple text file.
The file will be in this file.
This folder logs
dir logs
These are some default logs:
Simple text files only.

U can just open with notepad.

In the coming application we will see how the logs are coming.

cd conf:
Under conf we have 3 xml files:
server.xml file
web.xml file
tomcat-users.xml file

When you are writing security for your application:
Then you need to write in tomcat-users.xml file
U need to open this and 

**********************************************************
server.xml file:
Your entire apache tomcat configuration is available in this.
Open this using notepad only.
We have customed port number right:
Default port or something
Suppose at the time of installtion,you want to modify the port numbers
************
Later  if you want change you can come back to this and change 

So Connector Port we can see as 9999
See below
<!-- A "Connector" represents an endpoint by which requests are received
         and responses are returned. Documentation at :
         Java HTTP Connector: /docs/config/http.html (blocking & non-blocking)
         Java AJP  Connector: /docs/config/ajp.html
         APR (HTTP/AJP) Connector: /docs/apr.html
         Define a non-SSL HTTP/1.1 Connector on port 9999
    -->

If we have changed the connecton port information,it has write the information generated.
and if you dint change at the time of installtion,it will write as 8080.

Later after intallation you can come back here and change the installation to whatever you want.
AJP Connector also changed.Default is 8009
See below-->
<!-- Define an AJP 1.3 Connector on port 9009 -->
<Connector port="9009" protocol="AJP/1.3" redirectPort="8443" />

Shutdown Port:
<Server port="9005" shutdown="SHUTDOWN">

*********************************************************
This web.xml file is a similar file that contains all the information about all the applications running
in the container.

In one webcontainer,you can deploy multiple applications,say written 5 applications
5 applications can be deployed into single Tomcat Server and every application will have one web.xml file.

When you have 5 applications,there would be 5 web.xml files
Every web-application  will have an web.xml file.

Because configuration information will change from application to application.
And any common information about all the web-applications you have to write inside this web.xml file.

Something you have which is common for al 5 applications running in server,that you write under this web.xml file.
Lets see the content of this web.xml

 <session-config>
        <session-timeout>30</session-timeout>
    </session-config>

session-config,session-timeout 30 which is specified with default you can set the default timeout in minutes for new applications,
something like this,we have an application,
Any idea what is the meaning of session timeout.
Those who are using online banking they will know this right.
When you login in any application,and for sometime,you are not doing any action,that session will be expired automatically.
How much time it is taking?
For a transaction it is very less,may 1 min or 2 min.

So,depending on application you can set the time.
If user is idle,not using application,not doing anything then,if you want to close the session automatically
If you want to display the "session expired" what all message you want,that you can configure here.
Defualt configured as 30 min.

Once you open the application,and you need something,later for 30 min you are not doing any activity.
Then automatically session will be expired.
You cant access the application.

If you want to change it now.
You can change this now.
Suppose I want to timeout in 15 mins.

Just change this as:
 
 <session-config>
        <session-timeout>15</session-timeout>
    </session-config>  

So this information is given in conf folder.
This is common to all the applications running in the server.

Say in my Tomcat I have developed 5 applications,all 5 applications running but all 5 applications default session timeout is:
15 mins only.
But I have different requirement,5 applications running in my server.
For 1 application I need 3 mins
For other application I need 2 mins only.
For other application I need 13 mins.
For other applicaion some other time.

Then you have to configure web.xml related to that specific application.
For every application,there will be an web.xml file.
You can configure that application.
Anything common for all that application running in a container,we can configure that in web.xml which is under conf.

So 4 folders we have seen:
bin,conf,lib and logs


And one more important is web-apps.
and work also.


cd web-apps

Web app is the shortcut of web applications
Now when you deploy any application,into server that application will come and sit in this folder only.
You have written 5 applications,
app1
app2
app3
app4
app5

These are names of the application.
When you deploy this 5 into server

Your 5 applicatons will come and sit in this folder.
web-app folder contains all the applications deployed into Tomcat.

And currently they have written these applications:
cd web-apps
docs is 1 application
examples,host-manager,manager,ROOT is the default application.

So,like in your first example we have,we are developing an application ccwebapp.
That ccwebapp will come in this webapps folder.

cd ROOT:
cd work
***************************************************************************
See Page 7 in Notes:
configure tomcat =>
Some display name showing=>u can change it or keep exactly it is
startup type:
Default is Automatic.
Automatic means whenever your computer starts,whenever you switch on your computer,
along with the computer startup os loading,your tomcat will aslo be ready.

You have to stop that:
But dont make it manual,manual is when you will start it will start.

Because we will not start the tomcat with this approach.
We will integrate this Tomcat with Eclipse,directly we will start the tomcat from Eclipse only.
directly we will shutdown the tomcat from Eclipse only

If it is automatically starting,again when you start from eclipse,it will give conflict.
Same server port no...,we will get problem

So,make the start up as manual, and click on start button now.

Now Tomcat is running:http://localhost:9999/

Now currently we cannot type domain name coursecube.com because it  is deployed somewhere.

We have reached tomcat.Where is tomcat server running?
In our machine only,so write as localhost.
So with localhost,we will reach the computer,its running on the remote machine with an IP Address.
It will go to the computer,in that computer which service has to get procesed,here we need a service as server whose 
port number is 9999
so http://localhost:9999/

And if you are able to see this page,then your Tomcat is installed successfully and running successfully
Tomcat is running now.

Click on server status:
Its asking now username password.

Currently whatever applications running here,you can see alll the applicaion running here.
Server Status:
What is the type of memory used here?

List Applications:
What are the applications currently running?
What applications running?
How to check what are the applications running?
If I ask you how many applications are running in this Tomcat?
How you can tell that 
Go to webapps
And how many folders are there
5 folders
Each folder is 1 application
One webapplication
Root is 1 application
manager is another application
In that five different applicaton running under Tomcat.

See https://localhost:9999/

And now I am asking List of Applications
its taking application name as
"ROOT" they taken as a path slash(/)
And running status as true.
Any session running on the server

Currently manager app has 1 session that is what we are using now.
I user is using so one session is running.
If 100 user using this it will show 100 sessions

Other applications I am not using now
So,it is showing as 0 sessions
and other basic applications

If you want to deploy any application from here you can do it from here.
1.
Deploy
Deploy directory or WAR file located on server
2. 
WAR file to deploy

We know how to create a jar file,like that we can write a web file,WAR
After developing your webapplication you can create a WAR,you can upload the WAR here.

The file will go and sit in the Tomcat.

Configure:Stop

***********************************************************
Start our Application:

Steps to develop and run first servlet example with servlet version 2.x
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3

And servlet 3 version onwards
Annotation

From servlet first version to 2.5
Only servlet configuration can be done with xml

From servlet 3.0 first time added annotation configuration.
From 3.0 onwards you can configure with xml or annotation configuration.

So will see now with xml version 2.x
Everything same there is no change in developing the servlet class.

And your html versions html tags are different.

The biggest change from 2.x to 3.x is 
Configuration style has changed.

Instead of writing all in xml we can write short in annotation.

We  need login.html file and LoginServlet.
And LoginServlet has to be configured in the .xml file
Three components to write.

Will go for Eclipse now.

Taking different workspace for servlets.











 



























 



 

 

 



If you install JBOSS later,it will use the same port number.
Because JBOSS later will also use the same port numbers.

Since same port numbers with two servers cannot run in a single machine.
We have to run one server with one port number.

Transcript dated Servlet 7th Nov
Contd.....:P





 

 











   




 


 
 






 
  


 
    





   
 











 

 

 







 
 


      
 


    
  

  

  




 
 
 
